.TH chocolate\-doom 6
.SH NAME
chocolate\-doom \- historically compatible Doom engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chocolate\-doom
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Chocolate Doom is a port of Id Software's 1993 game "Doom" that is designed
to behave as similar to the original DOS version of Doom as is possible.
.br
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-cdrom\fR
[windows only] Save configuration data and savegames in c:\\doomdata, allowing play from CD. 
.TP
\fB\-config <file>\fR
Load main configuration from the specified file, instead of the default. 
.TP
\fB\-devparm\fR
Developer mode.  F1 saves a screenshot in the current working directory. 
.TP
\fB\-dumpsubstconfig <filename>\fR
Read all MIDI files from loaded WAD files, dump an example substitution music config file to the specified filename and quit. 
.TP
\fB\-episode <n>\fR
Start playing on episode n (1\-4) 
.TP
\fB\-extraconfig <file>\fR
Load additional configuration from the specified file, instead of the default. 
.TP
\fB\-fast\fR
Monsters move faster. 
.TP
\fB\-file <files>\fR
Load the specified PWAD files. 
.TP
\fB\-iwad <file>\fR
Specify an IWAD file to use. 
.TP
\fB\-loadgame <s>\fR
Load the game in slot s. 
.TP
\fB\-mb <mb>\fR
Specify the heap size, in MiB (default 16). 
.TP
\fB\-mmap\fR
Use the OS's virtual memory subsystem to map WAD files directly into memory. 
.TP
\fB\-nomonsters\fR
Disable monsters. 
.TP
\fB\-nomusic\fR
Disable music. 
.TP
\fB\-nosfx\fR
Disable sound effects. 
.TP
\fB\-nosound\fR
Disable all sound output. 
.TP
\fB\-respawn\fR
Monsters respawn after being killed. 
.TP
\fB\-skill <skill>\fR
Set the game skill, 1\-5 (1: easiest, 5: hardest).  A skill of 0 disables all monsters. 
.TP
\fB\-turbo <x>\fR
Turbo mode.  The player's speed is multiplied by x%.  If unspecified, x defaults to 200.  Values are rounded up to 10 and down to 400. 
.TP
\fB\-warp [<x> <y> | <xy>]\fR
Start a game immediately, warping to ExMy (Doom 1) or MAPxy (Doom 2) 

.SH COMPATIBILITY
.TP
\fB\-donut <x> <y>\fR
Use the specified magic values when emulating behavior caused by memory overruns from improperly constructed donuts. In Vanilla Doom this can differ depending on the operating system.  The default (if this option is not specified) is to emulate the behavior when running under Windows 98. 
.TP
\fB\-gameversion <version>\fR
Emulate a specific version of Doom.  Valid values are "1.666", "1.7", "1.8", "1.9", "ultimate", "final", "final2", "hacx" and "chex". 
.TP
\fB\-pack <pack>\fR
Explicitly specify a Doom II "mission pack" to run as, instead of detecting it based on the filename. Valid values are: "doom2", "tnt" and "plutonia". 
.TP
\fB\-setmem <version>\fR
Specify DOS version to emulate for NULL pointer dereference emulation.  Supported versions are: dos622, dos71, dosbox. The default is to emulate DOS 7.1 (Windows 98). 
.TP
\fB\-spechit <n>\fR
Use the specified magic value when emulating spechit overruns. 
.TP
\fB\-statdump <filename>\fR
Dump statistics information to the specified file on the levels that were played. The output from this option matches the output from statdump.exe (see ctrlapi.zip in the /idgames archive). 

.SH DEMO OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-longtics\fR
Record a high resolution "Doom 1.91" demo. 
.TP
\fB\-maxdemo <size>\fR
Specify the demo buffer size (KiB) 
.TP
\fB\-playdemo <demo>\fR
Play back the demo named demo.lmp. 
.TP
\fB\-record <x>\fR
Record a demo named x.lmp. 
.TP
\fB\-strictdemos\fR
When recording or playing back demos, disable any extensions of the vanilla demo format \- record demos as vanilla would do, and play back demos as vanilla would do. 
.TP
\fB\-timedemo <demo>\fR
Play back the demo named demo.lmp, determining the framerate of the screen. 

.SH DISPLAY OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-1\fR
Don't scale up the screen. 
.TP
\fB\-2\fR
Double up the screen to 2x its normal size. 
.TP
\fB\-3\fR
Double up the screen to 3x its normal size. 
.TP
\fB\-8in32\fR
Set the color depth of the screen to 32 bits per pixel. 
.TP
\fB\-bpp <bpp>\fR
Specify the color depth of the screen, in bits per pixel. 
.TP
\fB\-fullscreen\fR
Run in fullscreen mode. 
.TP
\fB\-geometry <WxY>[wf]\fR
Specify the dimensions of the window or fullscreen mode.  An optional letter of w or f appended to the dimensions selects windowed or fullscreen mode. 
.TP
\fB\-grabmouse\fR
Grab the mouse when running in windowed mode. 
.TP
\fB\-height <y>\fR
Specify the screen height, in pixels. 
.TP
\fB\-noblit\fR
Disable blitting the screen. 
.TP
\fB\-nodraw\fR
Disable rendering the screen entirely. 
.TP
\fB\-nograbmouse\fR
Don't grab the mouse when running in windowed mode. 
.TP
\fB\-nomouse\fR
Disable the mouse. 
.TP
\fB\-nonovert\fR
Enable vertical mouse movement. 
.TP
\fB\-novert\fR
Disable vertical mouse movement. 
.TP
\fB\-width <x>\fR
Specify the screen width, in pixels. 
.TP
\fB\-window\fR
Run in a window. 

.SH NETWORKING OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-altdeath\fR
Start a deathmatch 2.0 game.  Weapons do not stay in place and all items respawn after 30 seconds. 
.TP
\fB\-autojoin\fR
Automatically search the local LAN for a multiplayer server and join it. 
.TP
\fB\-avg\fR
Austin Virtual Gaming: end levels after 20 minutes. 
.TP
\fB\-connect <address>\fR
Connect to a multiplayer server running on the given address. 
.TP
\fB\-deathmatch\fR
Start a deathmatch game. 
.TP
\fB\-dedicated\fR
Start a dedicated server, routing packets but not participating in the game itself. 
.TP
\fB\-dup <n>\fR
Reduce the resolution of the game by a factor of n, reducing the amount of network bandwidth needed. 
.TP
\fB\-extratics <n>\fR
Send n extra tics in every packet as insurance against dropped packets. 
.TP
\fB\-ignoreversion\fR
When running a netgame server, ignore version mismatches between the server and the client. Using this option may cause game desyncs to occur, or differences in protocol may mean the netgame will simply not function at all. 
.TP
\fB\-left\fR
Run as the left screen in three screen mode. 
.TP
\fB\-localsearch\fR
Search the local LAN for running servers. 
.TP
\fB\-newsync\fR
Use new network client sync code rather than the classic sync code. This is currently disabled by default because it has some bugs. 
.TP
\fB\-nodes <n>\fR
Autostart the netgame when n nodes (clients) have joined the server. 
.TP
\fB\-port <n>\fR
Use the specified UDP port for communications, instead of the default (2342). 
.TP
\fB\-privateserver\fR
When running a server, don't register with the global master server. Implies \-server. 
.TP
\fB\-query <address>\fR
Query the status of the server running on the given IP address. 
.TP
\fB\-right\fR
Run as the right screen in three screen mode. 
.TP
\fB\-search\fR
Query the Internet master server for a global list of active servers. 
.TP
\fB\-server\fR
Start a multiplayer server, listening for connections. 
.TP
\fB\-servername <name>\fR
When starting a network server, specify a name for the server. 
.TP
\fB\-solo\-net\fR
Start the game playing as though in a netgame with a single player.  This can also be used to play back single player netgame demos. 
.TP
\fB\-timer <n>\fR
For multiplayer games: exit each level after n minutes. 

.SH DEHACKED AND WAD MERGING
.TP
\fB\-aa <files>\fR
Equivalent to "\-af <files> \-as <files>". 
.TP
\fB\-af <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's \-af option, merging flats into the main IWAD directory.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB\-as <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's \-as option, merging sprites into the main IWAD directory.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB\-deh <files>\fR
Load the given dehacked patch(es) 
.TP
\fB\-dehlump\fR
Load Dehacked patches from DEHACKED lumps contained in one of the loaded PWAD files. 
.TP
\fB\-merge <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of deutex's \-merge option, merging a PWAD into the main IWAD.  Multiple files may be specified. 
.TP
\fB\-nocheats\fR
Ignore cheats in dehacked files. 
.TP
\fB\-nodeh\fR
Disable automatic loading of Dehacked patches for certain IWAD files. 
.TP
\fB\-nwtmerge <files>\fR
Simulates the behavior of NWT's \-merge option.  Multiple files may be specified.
.SH IWAD SEARCH PATHS
To play, an IWAD file is needed. This is a large file containing all of the
levels, graphics, sound effects, music and other material that make up the
game. IWAD files are named according to the game; the standard names are:
.TP
\fBdoom.wad, doom1.wad, doom2.wad, tnt.wad, plutonia.wad\fR
Doom, Doom II, Final Doom
.TP
\fBheretic.wad, heretic1.wad, hexen.wad, strife1.wad\fR
Heretic, Hexen and Strife (commercial Doom engine games).
.TP
\fBhacx.wad, chex.wad\fR
Hacx and Chex Quest - more obscure games based on the Doom engine.
.TP
\fBfreedm.wad, freedoom1.wad, freedoom2.wad\fR
The Freedoom open content IWAD files.
.LP
The following directory paths are searched in order to find an IWAD:
.TP
\fBCurrent working directory\fR
Any IWAD files found in the current working directory will be used in
preference to IWADs found in any other directories.
.TP
\fBDOOMWADDIR\fR
This environment variable can be set to contain a path to a single directory
in which to look for IWAD files. This environment variable is supported by
most Doom source ports.
.TP
\fBDOOMWADPATH\fR
This environment variable, if set, can contain a colon-separated list of
directories in which to look for IWAD files, or alternatively full paths to
specific IWAD files.
.TP
\fB$HOME/.local/share/games/doom\fR
Writeable directory in the user's home directory. The path can be overridden
using the \fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fR environment variable (see the XDG Base Directory
Specification).
.TP
\fB/usr/local/share/games/doom, /usr/share/games/doom\fR
System-wide locations that can be accessed by all users. The path
\fB/usr/share/games/doom\fR is a standard path that is supported by most
Doom source ports. These paths can be overridden using the \fBXDG_DATA_DIRS\fR
environment variable (see the XDG Base Directory Specification).
.LP
The above can be overridden on a one-time basis by using the \fB\-iwad\fR
command line parameter to provide the path to an IWAD file to use. This
parameter can also be used to specify the name of a particular IWAD to use
from one of the above paths. For example, '\fB-iwad doom.wad\fR' will search
the above paths for the file \fBdoom.wad\fR to use.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This section describes environment variables that control Chocolate Doom's
behavior.
.TP
\fBDOOMWADDIR\fR, \fBDOOMWADPATH\fR
See the section, \fBIWAD SEARCH PATHS\fR above.
.TP
\fBPCSOUND_DRIVER\fR
When running in PC speaker sound effect mode, this environment variable
specifies a PC speaker driver to use for sound effect playback.  Valid
options are "Linux" for the Linux console mode driver, "BSD" for the
NetBSD/OpenBSD PC speaker driver, and "SDL" for SDL-based emulated PC speaker
playback (using the digital output).
.TP
\fBOPL_DRIVER\fR
When using OPL MIDI playback, this environment variable specifies an
OPL backend driver to use.  Valid options are "SDL" for an SDL-based
software emulated OPL chip, "Linux" for the Linux hardware OPL driver,
and "OpenBSD" for the OpenBSD/NetBSD hardware OPL driver.

Generally speaking, a real hardware OPL chip sounds better than software
emulation; however, modern machines do not often include one. If
present, it may still require extra work to set up and elevated
security privileges to access.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB$HOME/.chocolate-doom/default.cfg\fR
The main configuration file for Chocolate Doom.  See \fBdefault.cfg\fR(5).
.TP
\fB$HOME/.chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom.cfg\fR
Extra configuration values that are specific to Chocolate Doom and not
present in Vanilla Doom.  See \fBchocolate-doom.cfg\fR(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchocolate-server\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-setup\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-heretic\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-hexen\fR(6),
\fBchocolate-strife\fR(6)
.SH AUTHOR
Chocolate Doom is written and maintained by Simon Howard.  It is based on
the LinuxDoom source code, released by Id Software.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co id Software Inc.
Copyright \(co 2005-2013 Simon Howard.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

