-*- text -*-

Autoconf

Autoconf is an extensible package of M4 macros that produce shell
scripts to automatically configure software source code packages.
These scripts can adapt the packages to many kinds of UNIX-like
systems without manual user intervention.  Autoconf creates a
configuration script for a package from a template file that lists the
operating system features that the package can use, in the form of M4
macro calls.

Producing configuration scripts using Autoconf requires GNU M4 and
Perl.  You must install GNU M4 (version 1.4 or later) and Perl (5.005_03
or later) before configuring Autoconf, so that Autoconf's configure
script can find them.  The configuration scripts produced by Autoconf
are self-contained, so their users do not need to have Autoconf (or
GNU M4, Perl etc.).

The file INSTALL should be distributed with packages that use
Autoconf-generated configure scripts and Makefiles that conform to the
GNU coding standards.  The package's README can just give an overview
of the package, where to report bugs, and a pointer to INSTALL for
instructions on compilation and installation.  This removes the need
to maintain many similar sets of installation instructions.

Be sure to read BUGS (especially if this version is not an official
release) and INSTALL.

Mail suggestions to autoconf@gnu.org, report bugs on
http://sources.redhat.com/cgi-bin/gnatsweb.pl?database=autoconf or to
bug-autoconf@gnu.org, and submit patches to autoconf-patches@gnu.org.
Always include the Autoconf version number, which you can get by
running `autoconf --version'.

-----

Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2001 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.

This file is part of GNU Autoconf.

GNU Autoconf is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

GNU Autoconf is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with autoconf; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
